Taking advantage of LLVM / Clang in Embedded Projects (#101)
memfault/interrupt: _drafts/cortexm-and-clang.md

#
# COMPILER=<PATH_TO_OTHER_GCC_VERSION>/arm-none-eabi-gcc make
# COMPILER=clang make
COMPILER ?= arm-none-eabi-gcc
CC = $(COMPILER)

# [ ... ]

ifneq '' '$(findstring clang,$(CC_VERSION_INFO))'
$(info ===Clang Compiler Detected===)

COMPILER_SPECIFIC_CFLAGS +=
COMPILER_SPECIFIC_LDFLAGS +=

endif

ifneq '' '$(findstring gcc,$(CC_VERSION_INFO))'
$(info ===GCC Compiler Detected===)

COMPILER_SPECIFIC_CFLAGS +=
COMPILER_SPECIFIC_LDFLAGS +=

endif

CFLAGS += $(COMPILER_SPECIFIC_CFLAGS)
LDFLAGS += $(COMPILER_SPECIFIC_LDFLAGS)
```

### Create a "compiler.h" header

You'll probably encounter some code in your project that is compatible with GCC but not Clang. For
any project supporting multiple compilers you will find a "compiler.h" style header that wraps
compiler specifics behind a common macro. For example, for Clang you need to use a different
attribute to disable optimizations on a function.

```c
//! @file example_project/compiler.h

#if defined(__clang__)

#define EXAMPLE_PROJ_NO_OPT __attribute__((optnone))

#elif defined(__GNUC__)

#define EXAMPLE_PROJ_NO_OPT __attribute__((optimize("O0")))

#else
#  error "Unsupported Compiler"
#endif
```

#### Aside: Prefix Project Macros!

> Due to the C languages lack of namespacing, it's a good idea to prefix your macros to avoid collisions with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the C language's lack of namespacing, it's a good idea to prefix your macros to avoid collisions with
```

  opportunistically replace parts of your code with builtins for better performance or to save code
  space. With GNU GCC these builtins are exposed via `libgcc.a`[^3]. With clang they are exposed
  via `libclang_rt.builtins.*.a`. There is no formal specification for what builtins need to be
  implemented but Clang makes every effort to match the exact subset required by GCC.

Fortunately, for ARM Cortex-M development, the official GNU ARM toolchain[^1] bundles pre-compiled
variants of [Newlib's libc and libm]({% post_url 2019-11-12-boostrapping-libc-with-newlib %}).

When you compile a project with the GNU ARM toolchain, `libc.a`, `libm.a`, & `libgcc.a` from the
pre-compiled Newlib will be linked into your project automatically.

I would suggest instead using the compiler flag `--nostdlib` to disable this behavior. This will force you
to manually specify these targets (by adding `-lc`, `-lm`, & `-lgcc` to your LDFLAGS). It makes it
more explicit when library dependencies are pulled into your project and easier to experiment with
swapping in alternative versions of the standard library.

#### Adding standard libraries to Clang "bare-metal" compilation

> Clang does not bundle a C standard library for "bare-metal" ARM Cortex-M targets so the recommendation in this scenario is to use the libraries included with the ARM toolchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clang does not bundle a C standard library for "bare-metal" ARM Cortex-M targets, so the recommendation in this scenario is to use the libraries included with the ARM GNU toolchain.
```

Putting it all together and updating the Makefile we started above we have:

```bash
# Note: These arguments will be used by clang to select
# the specific architecture target when we use the
# invoke Clang with --target=arm-none-eabi
ARCH_CFLAGS += \
  -mthumb -mcpu=cortex-m4 \
  -mfloat-abi=hard -mfpu=fpv4-sp-d16 \

# [ ... ]

ifneq '' '$(findstring clang,$(CC_VERSION_INFO))'
$(info ===Clang Compiler Detected===)

# Default assumes an GNU ARM toolchain is on your path
# but an explicit path can also be provided by doing
# ARM_GNU_CC_COMPILER=<PATH_TO_GCC> make
ARM_CORTEXM_SYSROOT = \
  $(shell $(ARM_GNU_CC) $(ARCH_CFLAGS) -print-sysroot 2>&1)

# The directory where Newlib's libc.a & libm.a reside
# for the specific target architecture
ARM_CORTEXM_MULTI_DIR = \
  $(shell $(ARM_GNU_CC) $(ARCH_CFLAGS) -print-multi-directory 2>&1)

# Pick up builtins needed for compilation
ARM_CORTEXM_BUILTINS ?= \
$(shell $(ARM_GNU_CC) $(ARCH_CFLAGS) -print-libgcc-file-name 2>&1)

COMPILER_SPECIFIC_CFLAGS += \
  --target=arm-none-eabi \
  --sysroot=$(ARM_CORTEXM_SYSROOT)

COMPILER_SPECIFIC_LDFLAGS += \
  -L$(ARM_CORTEXM_SYSROOT)/lib/$(ARM_CORTEXM_MULTI_DIR) \
  $(ARM_CORTEXM_BUILTINS)
endif
```

> ### Use Clangs `-0z` instead of GCCs `-Os`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use Clang's `-0z` instead of GCC's `-Os`
```

# [...]
Linking library
Generated build/nrf52.elf
Generated build/nrf52.elf
   text    data     bss     dec     hex	filename
   9846    2112   13328   25286    62c6	build/nrf52.elf
```

#### Observations

We can see for our simple example app the sizes are within about 1% of each other (25,510 bytes for Clang vs 25,286 bytes for GCC).

## Linking GCC Objects with LLVMs Linker

The LLVM linker (ld.lld) [^9] strives to be a drop-in replacement for the GNU linkers and has come a long way in
recent years in terms of compatibility.

There's some pretty bold claims made on the official docs that may make you want to try it out:

> LLD is very fast. When you link a large program on a multicore machine, you can expect that LLD runs more than twice as fast as the GNU gold linker. Your mileage may vary, though.

As of GCC9[^6], it is even possible to tell GCC to use it instead of the GNU linker with the
`-fuse-ld=lld` option:

```bash
$ export LLVM_BIN_PATH=$(dirname $(which ld.lld))
$ make clean
# NOTE: The -B<PATH> argument tells GCC to search PATH
# for binaries
$ CLI_LDFLAG_OVERRIDES="-B${LLVM_ROOT} -Wl,-fuse-ld=lld" \
  COMPILER=arm-none-eabi-gcc make
```

## Final Thoughts

> I first experimented with Clang for Cortex-M in 2013 and at the time the backend for code-size

Reviewer: I almost want this at the beginning. It's a neat fun fact. Optional though.

optimization for ARM just didn't compete with other compilers like GCC. These days it seems like

> things are getting pretty close and I'm quite impressed at how the toolchain has progressed overall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
things are getting pretty close, and I'm quite impressed at how the toolchain has progressed overall.
```

---

> title: "Taking advantage of LLVM / Clang in Embedded Projects"

Author: A Guide to LLVM/Clang for Embedded Developers
The Best of LLVM/Clang for Embedded
Why every embedded project should use LLVM/Clang
LLVM/Clang & C Static Analysis: Firmware Edition

tag: [cortex-m]
author: chris
---

If you have ever done any software development that involves Apple products, FreeBSD, WebAssembly, or Rust you have made use of a wildly popular compiler toolchain known as LLVM. However, in the embedded world, LLVM and the open source C-language compiler built on top of it (Clang) still do not get a lot of attention.

<!-- excerpt start -->

In this article, I hope I can convince you that adding a Clang build target to your project can be
a relatively simple and useful endeavor. We will cover how to take advantage of some of the
rich features shipped with the toolchain and identify some memory leaks and mutex deadlocks in an
example project at compile time! We will also walk through a step-by-step example of updating a GCC
based ARM Cortex-M project to compile you need to take to cross-compile with LLVM/Clang.

<!-- excerpt end -->

> Note: While the focus of the article will be using LLVM/Clang with ARM Cortex-M embedded devices, the
> general overview of LLVM as well as the features leveraged can be applied to any architecture
> supported by the toolchain.

{:.no_toc}

## Table of Contents

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

> 

Reviewer: I think you do an OK job at mentioning the benefits of compiling with Clang, but I'm missing a section that makes it trivial for me to understand why I would benefit from compiling my project with clang or any other compiler. 

## Benefits of Compiling with Clang

Many embedded projects use IAR, armcc, GCC, or one of other proprietary build systems. blah blah

- Static analysis
- Easier to move off of a proprietary compiler when the time is right by becoming less dependent on a single compiler feature set
- You can use both compilers `-Werror` flag to your advantage and reap the most amount of benefit from compile time analysis
- By compiling with clang, you are setting yourself up nicely for running unit tests and simulated builds on host

I think the section probably belongs after the background section

> ## Background

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Background of GCC and Clang
```

The advent of open source compilers and toolchains traces back over 30 years to 1987 and the
release of GCC 1.0. The origins of the toolchain were for smooth compilation of GNU open source
software written in C. The toolchain grew organically over time to target numerous architectures and support a
variety of different languages. As a consequence, many aspects of the codebase have became complex to extend and work with.

The LLVM project is the "new" open source compiler on the block. It began as a research project at the
University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign in 2000[^12]. The early goals of the project were to create a
more modular compiler toolchain by designing a collection of standalone libraries. The LLVM project really took root in 2005 when Apple hired one of the original designers, Chris
Lattner, and invested heavily in making LLVM the default used for its own developer ecosystem. This

> bore Clang (a C, C++, & Objective-C) frontend compiler to LLVM and modern day GNU GCC competitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bore Clang (a C, C++, & Objective-C), the frontend compiler to LLVM and modern day GNU GCC competitor.
```

> Today, the LLVM toolchain has become ubiquitous in the software world and in recent years it has seen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, the LLVM toolchain has become ubiquitous in the software world and, in recent years, it has seen
```

adoption in the embedded world as well. The favorable license in comparison to the GNU
toolchain (Apache 2 vs GPL3) along with the more modular architecture has made the LLVM toolchain a
default choice in the proprietary embedded compiler market. ARM scrapped their original compiler in

> favor of an LLVM/Clang based one with the release of ARM Compiler 6 (`armclang`) and more recently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
favor of an LLVM/Clang based one with the release of ARM Compiler 6 (`armclang`) and, more recently,
```

SEGGER built an ARM compiler based on the LLVM/Clang toolchain as
well[^11].

> It's clear LLVM/Clang is here to stay and as we will discover below there are already quite a few

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's clear LLVM/Clang is here to stay and, as we will discover below, there are already quite a few
```

Regardless, I don't love this sentence. 

It's clear LLVM/Clang is here to stay. As such, there are already quite a few ways it can be utilized for embedded development today, which we will discover below!

Author: I removed it. I think the replacement section you suggested captures what I was trying to achieve

ways it can be utilized for embedded development today!

## Example Project

Throughout the article we will make use of a simple example project that runs FreeRTOS and can be
run on the NRF52840. If you would like to follow along locally all of the code can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/memfault/interrupt/tree/master/example/freertos-example-llvm/).

## Installing LLVM/Clang

The easiest way to get your hands on the latest release of the LLVM/Clang toolchain is to download
the release for your OS from the
["Pre-Built Binaries" section](https://releases.llvm.org/download.html) on the official website.

In this article, we will be making use of LLVM 10.0.0:

```
# OSX
$ wget "https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases/download/llvmorg-10.0.0/clang+llvm-10.0.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz"
$ tar -xf clang+llvm-10.0.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz

> # Ubuntu

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# Ubuntu
```

$ wget "https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases/download/llvmorg-10.0.0/clang+llvm-10.0.0-x86_64-linux-gnu-ubuntu-18.04.tar.xz"
$ tar -xf clang+llvm-10.0.0-x86_64-linux-gnu-ubuntu-18.04.tar.xz
```

Let's add the toolchain to our path:

```bash
# OSX

> $ export PATH=`pwd`/clang+llvm-10.0.0-x86_64-apple-darwin/bin/:$PATH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export PATH=`pwd`/clang+llvm-10.0.0-x86_64-apple-darwin/bin:$PATH
```

> # Ubuntu

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# Ubuntu
```

> $ export PATH=`pwd`/clang+llvm-10.0.0-x86_64-linux-gnu-ubuntu-18.04/bin/:$PATH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export PATH=`pwd`/clang+llvm-10.0.0-x86_64-linux-gnu-ubuntu-18.04/bin:$PATH
```

```

You can sanity check that the install is working by running `clang --version`:

```bash
$ clang --version
clang version 10.0.0
Target: x86_64-apple-darwin18.5.0
Thread model: posix
InstalledDir: <SHOULD MATCH PATH YOU JUST ADDED ABOVE>
```

## Static Analysis With Clang and scan-build

> [Below](#porting-gcc-to-clang) we will dive into how to migrate a project using GCC to Clang, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Below](#porting-gcc-to-clang), we will dive into how to migrate a project using GCC to Clang, but
```

> first let’s take a look at some of the awesome static analysis passes and checkers we can run on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first, let’s take a look at some of the awesome static analysis passes and checkers we can run on
```

our example project with LLVM/Clang!

### Overview of scan-build

`scan-build` is a static analyzer included as part of the LLVM toolchain. It works by intercepting calls to gcc or clang and making a static analysis pass.

> `scan-build` works by overriding the `CC` and `CXX` used by `CMake` and `Make` so if you aren't doing anything tricky in your project, invoking the tool is as simple as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`scan-build` works by overriding the `CC` and `CXX` used by `CMake` and `Make`. If you aren't doing anything tricky in your project, invoking the tool is as simple as:
```

```bash
$ scan-build --help
CONTROLLING CHECKERS:

 A default group of checkers are always run unless explicitly disabled.
 Checkers may be enabled/disabled using the following options:

 -enable-checker [checker name]
 -disable-checker [checker name]
[...]
AVAILABLE CHECKERS:

 + core.CallAndMessage           Check for logical errors for function calls and Objective-C message expressions (e.g., uninitialized arguments, null function pointers)
 + core.DivideZero               Check for division by zero
 + core.DynamicTypePropagation   Generate dynamic type information
 + core.NonNullParamChecker      Check for null pointers passed as arguments to a function whose arguments are references or marked with the 'nonnull' attribute
 + core.NullDereference          Check for dereferences of null pointers
 + core.StackAddressEscape       Check that addresses to stack memory do not escape the function
 + core.UndefinedBinaryOperatorResult Check for undefined results of binary operators
[...]
NOTE: "+" indicates that an analysis is enabled by default.
```

I find the default set to be a good starting point but you can easily enable non-default ones or

> disable individual defaults. (You can even implement your own custom pugins but these topics are outside the scope of this article.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
disable individual defaults. You can even implement your own custom pugins but these topics are outside the scope of this article.
```

Let's run scan-build on our example project. We'll see it finds a few interesting potential issues that neither Clang or GCC noticed during compilation.

Results will be emitted directly to the console or you can browse them using the `scan-view`
command bundled with LLVM.

> 

Reviewer: Nooo!!!! You *have* to include a screenshot of the `scan-view` website! 

> Imagine if Jenkins would publish the HTML of each build artifact and you can always view the current static analysis issues of the master branch!

Author: hehe I was thinking of making one of them a thumbnail but you are right including some here would be a good call too!

[...]
Linking library
Generated build/nrf52.elf
scan-build: 8 bugs found.
scan-build: Run 'scan-view /var/folders/dm/b0yt' to examine bug reports.
```

#### core.NullDereference Checker

```c
int example_operate_on_pointer(uint8_t *pointer) {
  int result = 0;
  if (pointer == NULL) {
    result = -1;
  }
  result += *pointer;
  return result;
}
```

```bash
src/builtin_scanbuild_examples.c:13:13:
  warning: Dereference of null pointer (loaded from variable 'pointer')
  result += *pointer;
```

> NOTE: The NullDereference Checker only looks for null pointer accesses _after_ there has already been a nullability check. This helps prevent the generation of false positives for functions that never get passed a NULL pointer.

#### core.DivideZero Checker

```c
int example_divide_by_zero(int denominator) {
  int rv = 5;
  if (denominator == 0) {
    rv = 1 / denominator;
  }
  return rv;
}
```

```bash
src/builtin_scanbuild_examples.c:20:11: warning: Division by zero
  rv = 1 / denominator;
```

### Enabling "Malloc" Static Analysis Checkers

`scan-build` also includes a sophisticated suite of dynamic memory checkers to catch bugs such as

> memory leaks, use-after-free and double free (These are mostly run as part of the `unix.Malloc` checker). If you use the C standard library calls (i.e

Reviewer: ```suggestion
memory leaks and use-after-free and double free errors (These are mostly run as part of the `unix.Malloc` checker). If you use the C standard library calls (i.e
```

`calloc`, `malloc`, `free`, etc) in your embedded project, these checks will work out of the box.

> However, for many embedded projects this is not the case. It's typical to have a heap (or "byte

Reviewer: However, many embedded projects might need to instrument this checker to work with the project codebase. 

Or something like that.

pool") per subsystem (i.e network stack, graphics, sensor data, etc). This can help prevent

> one subsystem from taking down the other. In other embedded systems RAM speed may not be heterogenous and it may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one subsystem from taking down the other. In other embedded systems, RAM speed may not be heterogeneous, and it may
```

be desirable to partition RAM into pools by access speed. In this manner subsystems requiring the
fastest RAM (i.e graphics) can use one heap and subsystems which do not care can use slower RAM.

Conveniently, you can make use of compiler attributes to flag functions that behave like "malloc" and enable the
`unix.Malloc` checkers on them. Let's take a look at doing this for the "memory_pool.h" file in our example project:

```c
#pragma once
//! @file memory_pool.h

#include <stddef.h>

void *memory_pool_allocate(size_t size);
void memory_pool_free(void *ptr);
```

#### Attributes For Malloc Checking on Custom Functions

In our `compiler.h` header we will add the following:

```c

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```c
#pragma once
//! @file memory_pool.h

#include <stddef.h>

void *memory_pool_allocate(size_t size);
void memory_pool_free(void *ptr);
```

#### Attributes For Malloc Checking on Custom Functions

In our `compiler.h` header we will add the following:

```c
#if defined(__clang__)

#define EXAMPLE_PROJ_MALLOC_LIKE_FUNC \
  __attribute__((ownership_returns(malloc)))

//! Note: Second Argument is the argument index for
//! the pointer being free'd. For simplicity, let's assume
//! the pointer is always in the 1st argument
#define EXAMPLE_PROJ_FREE_LIKE_FUNC \
__attribute__((ownership_takes(malloc, 1)))

#else

#define EXAMPLE_PROJ_MALLOC_LIKE_FUNC
#define EXAMPLE_PROJ_FREE_LIKE_FUNC

#endif
```

We'll update `memory_pool.h` to use these attributes and apply one small workaround so the checker
works with our custome functions:

```c
#pragma once
//! @file memory_pool.h

#include <stddef.h>

EXAMPLE_PROJ_MALLOC_LIKE_FUNC
void *memory_pool_allocate(size_t size);

//! As of LLVM 10, the "unix.MismatchedDeallocator" expects
//! memory to always be released with free() and will emit
//! the following error if not:
//!

> //! "warning: Memory allocated by my_free_func(), should be

Author: yes, good catch

void accel_lock(void);

EXAMPLE_PROJ_FUNC_RELEASES_LOCK(accel)
void accel_unlock(void);

EXAMPLE_PROJ_FUNC_REQUIRES_LOCK_HELD(accel)
extern void example_func_requires_accel(void);
```

Now let's try out a few examples:

```c
void example_flash_lock_bug(void) {
  flash_lock();

  int rv = do_some_work_while_holding_locks();
  if (rv == -1) {
    return;
  }
  flash_unlock();
}
```

```bash
$ cd interrupt/examples/freertos-example-llvm/
$ make clean
$ CLI_CFLAG_OVERRIDES=-Wthread-safety COMPILER=clang make
[...]
src/mutex_examples.c:14:1:
  error: mutex '_flash' is not held on every path through here
      [-Werror,-Wthread-safety-analysis]
}
^
src/mutex_examples.c:7:3: note: mutex acquired here
  flash_lock();
```

```c
void example_accel_lock_bug(void) {
  example_func_requires_accel();
}
```

```bash
$ cd interrupt/examples/freertos-example-llvm/
$ make clean
$ CLI_CFLAG_OVERRIDES=-Wthread-safety COMPILER=clang make
[...]
src/mutex_examples.c:17:3:
  error: calling function 'example_func_requires_accel' requires holding
      mutex '_accel' exclusively [-Werror,-Wthread-safety-analysis]
  example_func_requires_accel();
```

Pretty neat, right?!

> There's some additional checkers which can be enabled via annotations as well to enforce certain locks are acquired

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some additional checkers can be enabled via annotations as well to enforce certain locks are acquired
```

> before/after others. I'd suggest taking a look at the official documentation for more ideas![^8].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
before/after others. Take a look at the official documentation for more ideas![^8].
```

### Additional Clang Specific Compiler Warnings

> Once you can compile your project with Clang, there's a number of other compiler warnings not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you can compile your project with Clang, there are other compiler warnings not
```

#
# COMPILER=<PATH_TO_OTHER_GCC_VERSION>/arm-none-eabi-gcc make
# COMPILER=clang make
COMPILER ?= arm-none-eabi-gcc
CC = $(COMPILER)

# [ ... ]

ifneq '' '$(findstring clang,$(CC_VERSION_INFO))'
$(info ===Clang Compiler Detected===)

COMPILER_SPECIFIC_CFLAGS +=
COMPILER_SPECIFIC_LDFLAGS +=

endif

ifneq '' '$(findstring gcc,$(CC_VERSION_INFO))'
$(info ===GCC Compiler Detected===)

COMPILER_SPECIFIC_CFLAGS +=
COMPILER_SPECIFIC_LDFLAGS +=

endif

CFLAGS += $(COMPILER_SPECIFIC_CFLAGS)
LDFLAGS += $(COMPILER_SPECIFIC_LDFLAGS)
```

### Create a "compiler.h" header

You'll probably encounter some code in your project that is compatible with GCC but not Clang. For
any project supporting multiple compilers you will find a "compiler.h" style header that wraps
compiler specifics behind a common macro. For example, for Clang you need to use a different
attribute to disable optimizations on a function.

```c
//! @file example_project/compiler.h

#if defined(__clang__)

#define EXAMPLE_PROJ_NO_OPT __attribute__((optnone))

#elif defined(__GNUC__)

#define EXAMPLE_PROJ_NO_OPT __attribute__((optimize("O0")))

#else
#  error "Unsupported Compiler"
#endif
```

> #### Aside: Prefix Project Macros!

Reviewer 2: You need to move this up, since you use it earlier in the post now.

  opportunistically replace parts of your code with builtins for better performance or to save code
  space. With GNU GCC these builtins are exposed via `libgcc.a`[^3]. With clang they are exposed
  via `libclang_rt.builtins.*.a`. There is no formal specification for what builtins need to be
  implemented but Clang makes every effort to match the exact subset required by GCC.

Fortunately, for ARM Cortex-M development, the official GNU ARM toolchain[^1] bundles pre-compiled
variants of [Newlib's libc and libm]({% post_url 2019-11-12-boostrapping-libc-with-newlib %}).

When you compile a project with the GNU ARM toolchain, `libc.a`, `libm.a`, & `libgcc.a` from the
pre-compiled Newlib will be linked into your project automatically.

I would suggest instead using the compiler flag `--nostdlib` to disable this behavior. This will force you
to manually specify these targets (by adding `-lc`, `-lm`, & `-lgcc` to your LDFLAGS). It makes it
more explicit when library dependencies are pulled into your project and easier to experiment with
swapping in alternative versions of the standard library.

#### Adding standard libraries to Clang "bare-metal" compilation

> Clang does not bundle an C standard library for "bare-metal" ARM Cortex-M targets so the recommendation in this scenario is to just use the libraries included with the ARM toolchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clang does not bundle a C standard library for "bare-metal" ARM Cortex-M targets so the recommendation in this scenario is to use the libraries included with the ARM toolchain.
```
